Israeli and US officials are set to hold
a virtual meeting this afternoon let's
bring in our White House correspondent
kimy hit she's joining us live from
Washington DC it's reported that these
talks will be focused on Rafa kimbley
but given the severity of the reports
coming from Gaza today could Al shifa
come
up yeah there's no question that Al
shifa will come up this is always uh
when the two governments meet uh why
range of topics that are discussed so we
know that this will be the topic that
will be discussed in addition to Rafa
but it's important to note that this
meeting itself almost didn't take place
given the fact that it was abruptly
cancelled Just One Week Ago by the
Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin
Netanyahu following the UN Security
Council vote on resolution for a
temporary ceasefire during Ramadan and
this was eventually rescheduled but uh
what had initially been an in-person
meeting as you point out is now a
virtual meeting which is going to make
uh discussions somewhat more challenging
uh we know that in addition to Al shifa
what will also be discussed are the
plans by the Israeli government for a
potential military ground operation into
Rafa one that the United States is
opposed to given the fact that there are
more than a million Palestinians
Sheltering there told that they would be
safe there and now that is no longer the
case so the United States is looking at
perhaps viable Alternatives and this is
something that we know they are
encouraging the Israeli government to do
so present will be the National Security
adviser Jake Sullivan who will be
leading this meeting along with the
minister for strategic Affairs on the
Israeli side Ron durmer yeah it would be
really interesting to see what comes out
of that meeting given just how much is
at stake for the some 1.4 or five
million people Sheltering in Rafa
Kimberly there are constant reports
about The Biden administration's
frustration with the Israeli government
but why hasn't that
materialized to any real policy
change yeah and you're seeing that
frustration not only outside the United
States but inside the United States even
within the Democratic party which is the
president's own party uh as recently as
just a few days ago a very senior
Democratic senator Bernie Sanders was uh
tweeting that he was frustrated by the
latest arms package to Israel saying
that the United States cannot beg
Netanyahu to stop bombing civilians one
day and then sending him thousands more
bombs that can level entire city blocks
referencing the the bombs and fighter
jets package that was sent by the United
States H the bottom line in all of this
is that there is some recognition by Joe
Biden as recently as a few days ago
about the suffering but at the same time
what has happened is that these arms
packages have been previously authorized
in the case of just a few days ago that
was part of an authorization from 2008
and 2009 so some of this is the wheels
of government already in motion uh so
the US president in some cases his hands
are tied but in other cases this is a
position of the US president and his
staunch support of Israel Kim thank you
very much for that that's our White
House correspondent live in Washington
DC